THE INDIAN PENAL CODE, 1860

CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION

1. Title and extent of operation of the Code
This Act shall be called the Indian Penal Code, and shall take effect throughout India except in the territories which, immediately before the 1st day of November, 1956, were comprised in Part B States.

2. Punishment of offences committed within India
Every person shall be liable to punishment under this Code and not otherwise for every act or omission contrary to the provisions thereof, of which he shall be guilty within India.

3. Punishment of offences committed beyond, but which by law may be tried within, India
Any person liable, by any Indian law, to be tried for an offence committed beyond India shall be dealt with according to the provisions of this Code for any act committed beyond India in the same manner as if such act had been committed within India.

4. Extension of Code to extra-territorial offences
The provisions of this Code apply also to any offence committed by any citizen of India in any place without and beyond India; any person on any ship or aircraft registered in India wherever it may be.

5. Certain laws not to be affected by this Act
Nothing in this Act shall affect the provisions of any Act for punishing mutiny and desertion of officers, soldiers, sailors or airmen in the service of the Government of India or the provisions of any special or local law.

CHAPTER II
GENERAL EXPLANATIONS

6. Definitions in the Code to be understood subject to exceptions
Throughout this Code every definition of an offence, every penal provision, and every illustration of every such definition or penal provision, shall be understood subject to the exceptions contained in the Chapter entitled "General Exceptions", though those exceptions are not repeated in such definition, penal provision, or illustration.

7. Sense of expression once explained
Every expression which is explained in any part of this Code, is used in every part of this Code in conformity with the explanation.

8. Gender
The pronoun "he" and its derivatives are used of any person, whether male or female.

9. Number
Unless the contrary appears from the context, words importing the singular number include the plural number, and vice versa.

10. "Man" and "Woman"
The word "man" denotes a male human being of any age; the word "woman" denotes a female human being of any age.

CHAPTER XVII
OF OFFENCES AGAINST PROPERTY

378. Theft
Whoever, intending to take dishonestly any movable property out of the possession of any person without that person's consent, moves that property in order to such taking, is said to commit theft. Explanation 1: A thing so long as it is attached to the earth, not being movable property, is not the subject of theft; but it becomes capable of being the subject of theft as soon as it is severed from the earth.

379. Punishment for theft
Whoever commits theft shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

380. Theft in dwelling house, etc.
Whoever commits theft in any building, tent or vessel, which building, tent or vessel is used as a human dwelling, or for the custody of property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

390. Robbery
In all robbery there is either theft or extortion. When theft is robbery: Theft is "robbery" if, in order to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft, the offender, for that end, voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint.

392. Punishment for robbery
Whoever commits robbery shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine; and, if the robbery be committed on the highway between sunset and sunrise, the imprisonment may be extended to fourteen years.

393. Attempt to commit robbery
Whoever attempts to commit robbery shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

395. Punishment for dacoity
Whoever commits dacoity shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

CHAPTER XVI
OF OFFENCES AFFECTING THE HUMAN BODY

299. Culpable homicide
Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, or with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause death, commits the offence of culpable homicide.

300. Murder
Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death.

302. Punishment for murder
Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

304. Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder
Whoever commits culpable homicide not amounting to murder shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death, or of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.

307. Attempt to murder
Whoever does any act with such intention or knowledge, and under such circumstances that, if he by that act caused death, he would be guilty of murder, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine; and if hurt is caused to any person by such act, the offender shall be liable either to imprisonment for life, or to such punishment as is hereinbefore mentioned.
